{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red127\green127\blue127;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c57046\c57047\c57046;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\vieww28600\viewh16580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs72 \cf0 Grundlagen
\b0\fs24 \
\
Alwin, D. F., & Beattie, B. A. (2016). 
\b The KISS Principle in Survey Design: Question Length and Data Quality
\b0 .
\b  
\i\b0 Sociological Methodology
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175016641714\
Batinic, B. (2003). 
\b Internetbasierte Befragungsverfahren
\b0 . 
\i \'d6sterreichische Zeitschrift f\'fcr Soziologie
\i0 , 
\i 28
\i0 (4), 6\'9618. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11614-003-0019-6\
Bethlehem, J. G., & Biffignandi, S. (2012). 
\i\b Handbook of web surveys
\i0\b0 . Hoboken, N.J: Wiley.\
Bogner, K., & Landrock, U. (2014). 
\b Antworttendenzen in standardisierten Umfragen
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Brace, I. (2018). 
\i\b Questionnaire Design: How to Plan, Structure and Write Survey Material for Effective Market Research
\i0\b0 . S.l.: Kogan Page.\
Callegaro, M., Lozar Manfreda, K., & Vehovar, V. (2015). 
\i\b Web survey methodology
\i0\b0 . Los Angeles: SAGE.\
Couper, M. P. (2017). 
\b New Developments in Survey Data Collection
\b0 . 
\i Annual Review of Sociology
\i0 , 
\i 43
\i0 (1), 121\'96145. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-soc-060116-053613\
Czaja, R., Blair, J., & Blair, E. (2014). 
\i\b Designing surveys: a guide to decisions and procedures
\i0\b0  (Third edition). Los Angeles: SAGE.\
Dillman, D. A., Smyth, J. D., & Christian, L. M. (2014). 
\i\b Internet, phone, mail, and mixed-mode surveys: the tailored design method
\i0\b0  (4th edition). Hoboken: Wiley.\
D\'f6ring, N., & Bortz, J. (2016). 
\i\b Forschungsmethoden und Evaluation in den Sozial- und Humanwissenschaften
\i0  
\b0 (5. vollst\'e4ndig \'fcberarbeitete, aktualisierte und erweiterte Auflage). Berlin Heidelberg: Springer.\
Ebel, T., & Trixa, J. (2015). 
\b Hinweise zur Aufbereitung quantitativer Daten
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Papers
\i0 , 
\i 2015|09
\i0 .\
Faulbaum, F., Pr\'fcfer, P., & Rexroth, M. (2009). 
\i\b Was ist eine gute Frage? Die systematische Evaluation der Fragenqualit\'e4t
\b0 .
\i0  (1. Aufl). Wiesbaden: VS, Verl. f\'fcr Sozialwiss.\
Fowler, F. J. (1995). 
\i\b Improving survey questions: design and evaluation
\i0\b0 . Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications.\
Fowler, F. J. (2014). 
\i\b Survey research methods
\i0\b0  (Fifth edition). Los Angeles: SAGE.\
Friedrichs, J. (1990). 
\i\b Methoden empirischer Sozialforschung
\i0  
\b0 (14. Aufl). Opladen: Westdt. Verl.\
Gabler, S., & H\'e4der, S. (2014). 
\b Stichproben in der Theorie
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Gr\'e4f, L. (2010). 
\i\b Online-Befragung: eine praktische Einf\'fchrung f\'fcr Anf\'e4nger
\i0\b0 . Berlin: Lit-Verl.\
Groves, R. M. (Hrsg.). (2009). 
\i\b Survey methodology
\i0\b0  (2nd ed). Hoboken, N.J: Wiley.\
Gubrium, J. F., & Holstein, J. A. (Hrsg.). (2002). 
\i\b Handbook of interview research: context & method
\i0\b0 . Thousand Oaks, Calif: Sage Publications.\
H\'e4der, S. (2014). 
\b Stichproben in der Praxis
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\

\b Handreichung Datenschutz
\b0 . (2017). 
\i RatSWD Output Series
\i0 .\
Harris, D. F. (2014). 
\i\b The Complete guide to writing questionnaires: how to get better information for better decisions
\i0\b0 . Durham, North Carolina: I&M Press.\
Hollenberg, S. (2016). 
\i\b Frageb\'f6gen: fundierte Konstruktion, sachgerechte Anwendung und aussagekr\'e4ftige Auswertung
\i0  
\b0 (1. Auflage 2016). Wiesbaden: Springer VS.\
Jacob, R., Heinz, A., & D\'e9cieux, J. P. (2013). 
\i\b Umfrage: Einf\'fchrung in die Methoden der Umfrageforschung
\i0\b0  (3., \'fcberarb. Aufl). M\'fcnchen: Oldenbourg.\
Jansen, H. (2010). 
\b The Logic of Qualitative Survey Research and its Position in the Field of Social Research Methods
\b0 . 
\i Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research
\i0 , 
\i 11
\i0 (2). Abgerufen von http://www.qualitative-research.net/index.php/fqs/article/view/1450\
Kirchhoff, S., Kuhnt, S., Lipp, P., & Schlawin, S. (2010). 
\i\b Der Fragebogen: Datenbasis, Konstruktion und Auswertung
\i0\b0  (5. Auflage). Wiesbaden: VS Verlag.\
Kromrey, H., Roose, J., & Str\'fcbing, J. (2016). 
\i\b Empirische Sozialforschung
\i0\b0  (13., v\'f6llig \'fcberarbeitete Auflage). Stuttgart: UTB.\
Kuckartz, U., Ebert, T., R\'e4diker, S., & Stefer, C. (2009). 
\i\b Evaluation online: Internetgest\'fctzte Befragung in der Praxis
\i0\b0 . Wiesbaden: VS, Verlag f\'fcr Sozialwissenschaften.\
Lenzner, T., Menold, N., & GESIS-Leibniz-Institut F\'fcr Sozialwissenschaften. (2015). 
\b Frageformulierung
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.15465/gesis-sg_017\
Levy, P. S., & Lemeshow, S. (1999).
\b  
\i Sampling of populations: methods and applications
\i0\b0  (3rd ed). New York: Wiley.\
Marsden, P. V., & Wright, J. D. (Hrsg.). (2010). 
\i\b Handbook of survey research
\i0\b0  (Second edition). Bingley: Emerald.\
Mayer, H. O. (2013). 
\i\b Interview und schriftliche Befragung: Grundlagen und Methoden empirischer Sozialforschung
\i0\b0  (6., \'fcberarbeitete Auflage). M\'fcnchen: Oldenbourg Verlag.\
Moosbrugger, H., & Kelava, A. (Hrsg.). (2012). 
\i\b Testtheorie und Fragebogenkonstruktion
\i0\b0  (2., aktualisierte und \'fcberarbeitete Auflage). Berlin Heidelberg: Springer.\
Petersen, T. (2014). 
\i\b Der Fragebogen in der Sozialforschung
\i0\b0 . Konstanz M\'fcnchen: UVK Verlagsgesellschaft mbH mit UVK Lucius.\
Porst, R. (2000). 
\b Question Wording - Zur Formulierung von Fragebogen-Fragen
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 2
\i0 .\
Porst, R. (2014). 
\i\b Fragebogen: Ein Arbeitsbuch
\i0\b0  (4., erweiterte Auflage). Wiesbaden: Springer VS.\
Pr\'fcfer, P., & Rexroth, M. (2005). 
\b Kognitive interviews.
\b0  
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 15
\i0 .\
Pr\'fcfer, P., & Stiegler, A. (2002). 
\b Die Durchf\'fchrung standardisierter Interviews: Ein Leitfaden
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 11
\i0 .\
Qualit\'e4tsstandards, A. (2014). 
\b Qualit\'e4tsstandards zur Entwicklung, Anwendung und Bewertung von Messinstrumenten in der sozialwissenschaftlichen Umfrageforschung
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 230
\i0 .\
Raab-Steiner, E., & Benesch, M. (2015). 
\i\b Der Fragebogen: von der Forschungsidee zur SPSS-Auswertung
\i0\b0  (4., aktualisierte und \'fcberarbeitete Auflage). Wien: Facultas.\
Rea, L. M., & Parker, R. A. (2005). 
\i\b Designing and conducting survey research: a comprehensive guide
\i0\b0  (3rd ed). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.\
Ritter, L. A. (2007). 
\i\b Using Online Surveys in Evaluation
\i0\b0 . San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007a). 
\b Glossary
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 65\'9665. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.238\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007b).
\b  Introduction to using online surveys
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 5\'9614. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.230\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007c). 
\b The survey questionnaire
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 37\'9645. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.234\
Salant, P., & Dillman, D. A. (1994). 
\i\b How to conduct your own survey
\i0\b0 . New York: Wiley.\
Saris, W. E. (2014). 
\i\b Design, evaluation, and analysis of questionnaires for survey research
\i0\b0  (Second Edition). Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley.\
Schiek, D., & Ullrich, C. G. (2016). 
\i\b Qualitative Online-Erhebungen: M\'f6glichkeiten, Herausforderungen und Grenzen
\i0\b0 . Springer Fachmedien Wiesbaden. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-658-11817-4_1\
Schnell, R., Hill, P. B., & Esser, E. (2013). 
\i\b Methoden der empirischen Sozialforschung
\i0\b0  (10. \'fcberarbeitete Auflage). M\'fcnchen: Oldenbourg Verlag.\
Stiegler, A. (2015). 
\b Nutzung von R\'fcckrufnummern bei Meinungsumfragen
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Papers
\i0 , 
\i 2015/13
\i0 .\
Stiegler, A., & Biedinger, N. (2014). 
\b Interviewer Qualifikation und Training
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Sudman, S., & Bradburn, N. M. (1982). 
\i\b Asking questions: A Practical Guide to Questionnaire Design
\i0\b0  (1st ed). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.\
Theobald, E., & Neundorfer, L. (2010). 
\i\b Qualitative Online-Marktforschung: Grundlagen, Methoden und Anwendungen
\i0  
\b0 (1. Aufl). Baden-Baden: Nomos [u.a.].\
Tourangeau, R., Conrad, F. G., & Couper, M. (2013). 
\i\b The science of web surveys
\i0\b0 . Oxford\uc0\u8239 ; New York: Oxford University Press.\
Witte, J. C. (2009). 
\b Introduction to the Special Issue on Web Surveys
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (3), 283\'96290. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124108328896\
Z\'fcll, C. (2015). 
\b Offene Fragen
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.15465/gesis-sg_002\
\

\b\fs72 Bildung
\b0\fs24 \
\
Baethge, M., & Arends, L. (2009). 
\b Measuring Vocational Competencies
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 95
\i0 .\
Boud, D., & Molloy, E. (2013). 
\b Rethinking models of feedback for learning: the challenge of design
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 38
\i0 (6), 698\'96712. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2012.691462\
Davies, M., Hirschberg, J., Lye, J., & Johnston, C. (2010). 
\b A systematic analysis of quality of teaching surveys
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 35
\i0 (1), 83\'9696. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930802565362\
Goodman, J., Anson, R., & Belcheir, M. (2015). Th
\b e effect of incentives and other instructor-driven strategies to increase online student evaluation response rates
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 40
\i0 (7), 958\'96970. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2014.960364\
Johnson, G. M. (2015). 
\b Record of assessment moderation practice (RAMP): survey software as a mechanism of continuous quality improvement
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 40
\i0 (2), 265\'96278. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2014.911244\
Li, H., Xiong, Y., Zang, X., Kornhaber, M. L., Lyu, Y., Chung, K. S., & Suen, H. K. (2016). 
\b Peer assessment in the digital age: a meta-analysis comparing peer and teacher ratings
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 41
\i0 (2), 245\'96264. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2014.999746\
Peterson, K. D., Wahlquist, C., Brown, J. E., & Mukhopadhyay, S. (2006). 
\b Parent Surveys for Teacher Evaluation
\b0 . 
\i Journal of Personnel Evaluation in Education
\i0 , 
\i 17
\i0 (4), 317\'96330. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11092-006-5740-9\
Rammstedt, B. (2011). 
\b Kompetenzmessung in der Bildungsforschung
\b0 : Zusammenfassung des Forums (7) der 5. Konferenz f\'fcr Sozial-und Wirtschaftsdaten. 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 177
\i0 .\
Schneider, S. L. (2016). 
\b Die Konzeptualisierung, Erhebung und Kodierung von Bildung in nationalen und internationalen Umfragen
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Wei\'df, S., Schramm, S., Hillert, A., & Kiel, E. (2013). 
\b Lehrerinnen und Lehrer kommentieren Frageb\'f6gen: wie quantitative Forschung von qualitativer Forschung lernen kann
\b0 . 
\i Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research
\i0 , 
\i 14
\i0 (3), 30.\
\

\b\fs72 Methoden extended
\b0\fs24 \
\
Alwin, D. F. (2014). 
\b Investigating Response Errors in Survey Data
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 43
\i0 (1), 3\'9614. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124113507907\
Behr, D., Braun, M., & Dorer, B. (2014). 
\b Messinstrumente in internationalen Studien
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Benfield, J. A., & Szlemko, W. J. (2006). 
\b Internet-Based Data Collection: Promises and Realities
\b0 . 
\i Journal of Research Practice
\i0 , 
\i 2
\i0 (2), 1.\
Bennett, L., & Nair, C. S. (2010).
\b  A recipe for effective participation rates for web\uc0\u8208 based surveys
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 35
\i0 (4), 357\'96365. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930802687752\
Bladon, T. L. (2010). 
\b The Downward Trend of Survey Response Rates: Implications and Considerations for Evaluators
\b0 . 
\i Canadian Journal of Program Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 24
\i0 (2), 131\'96156.\
Blasius, J., & Thiessen, V. (2006). 
\b Assessing Data Quality and Construct Comparability in Cross-National Surveys
\b0 . 
\i European Sociological Review
\i0 , 
\i 22
\i0 (3), 229\'96242. https://doi.org/10.1093/esr/jci054\
Borg, I. (2000). 
\b Explorative Multidimensionale Skalierung
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 1
\i0 .\
Boud, D., & Molloy, E. (2013). 
\b Rethinking models of feedback for learning: the challenge of design
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 38
\i0 (6), 698\'96712. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2012.691462\
Brenner, P. S. (2017). 
\b Narratives of Response Error From Cognitive Interviews of Survey Questions About Normative Behavior
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 46
\i0 (3), 540\'96564. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124115605331\
Christian, L. M., Parsons, N. L., & Dillman, D. A. (2009). 
\b Designing Scalar Questions for Web Surveys
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (3), 393\'96425. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124108330004\
Connelly, R., Gayle, V., & Lambert, P. S. (2016). 
\b Ethnicity and ethnic group measures in social survey research
\b0 . 
\i Methodological Innovations
\i0 , 
\i 9
\i0 , 2059799116642885. https://doi.org/10.1177/2059799116642885\
Connelly, R., Gayle, V., & Lambert, P. S. (2016). 
\b Statistical modelling of key variables in social survey data analysis
\b0 . 
\i Methodological Innovations
\i0 , 
\i 9
\i0 (0). https://doi.org/10.1177/2059799116638002\
Converse, P. D., Wolfe, E. W., Huang, X., & Oswald, F. L. (2008). 
\b Response Rates for Mixed-Mode Surveys Using Mail and E-mail/Web
\b0 . 
\i American Journal of Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 29
\i0 (1), 99\'96107. https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214007313228\
Coryn, C. L., Gugiu, Pc., Davidson, Ej., & Schroter, D. C. (2007). 
\b Needs Assessment in Hidden Populations Using Respondent-driven Sampling
\b0 . 
\i Evaluation Journal of Australasia
\i0 , 
\i 7
\i0 (2), 3.\
Crawford, F. W. (2016). 
\b The Graphical Structure of Respondent-driven Sampling. 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0\b0 . https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175016641713\
Danner, D. (2014). 
\b Reliabilit\'e4t - die Genauigkeit einer Messung
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
DeCastellarnau, A., & Revilla, M. (2017). 
\b Two approaches to evaluate measurement quality in online surveys: An application using the Norwegian Citizen Panel
\b0 . In 
\i Survey Research Methods
\i0  (Bd. 11, S. 415\'96433).\
Dufrene, R. L. (2000). 
\b An evaluation of a patient satisfaction survey: validity and reliability
\b0 . 
\i Evaluation and Program Planning
\i0 , 
\i 23
\i0 (3), 293\'96300. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0149-7189(00)00015-X\
Du\'a0lmer, H. (2016). 
\b The Factorial Survey: Design Selection and its Impact on Reliability and Internal Validity
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 45
\i0 (2), 304\'96347. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124115582269\
Felton, J., Mitchell, J., & Stinson, M. (2004). 
\b Web-based student evaluations of professors: the relations between perceived quality, easiness and sexiness
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 29
\i0 (1), 91\'96108. https://doi.org/10.1080/0260293032000158180\
Frank, K., & Min, K.-S. (2007). 
\b 10. Indices of Robustness for Sample Representation
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (1), 349\'96392. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9531.2007.00186.x\
Freelon, D. (2013). 
\b ReCal OIR: Ordinal, interval, and ratio intercoder reliability as a web service
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 8
\i0 (1), 10\'9616.\
Freelon, D. G. (2010). 
\b ReCal: Intercoder reliability calculation as a web service
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 5
\i0 (1), 20\'9633.\
Fuchs, M. (2003). 
\b Kognitive Prozesse und Antwortverhalten in einer Internet-Befragung
\b0 . 
\i \'d6sterreichische Zeitschrift f\'fcr Soziologie
\i0 , 
\i 28
\i0 (4), 19\'9645. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11614-003-0020-0\
Gabler, S., Kolb, J.-P., Sand, M., & Zins, S. (2015). 
\b Gewichtung
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Garbarski, D., Schaeffer, N. C., & Dykema, J. (2016a).
\b  Interviewing Practices, Conversational Practices, and Rapport: Responsiveness and Engagement in the Standardized Survey Interview
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175016637890\
Garbarski, D., Schaeffer, N. C., & Dykema, J. (2016b). 
\b Rejoinder: Response to Comments on \'84Interviewing Practices, Conversational Practices, and Rapport: Responsiveness and Engagement in the Standardized Survey Interview
\b0 \'93. 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175016651074\
Geis, A. (2004). 
\b Texterfassung f\'fcr sozialwissenschaftliche Auswertung
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 13
\i0 .\
Gesell, S. B., Drain, M., & Sullivan, M. P. (2007). 
\b Test of a Web and paper employee satisfaction survey: Comparison of respondents and non-respondents
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 2
\i0 (1), 45\'9658.\
Gile, K. J., & Handcock, M. S. (2010). 7. 
\b Respondent-Driven Sampling: An Assessment of Current Methodology
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 , 
\i 40
\i0 (1), 285\'96327. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9531.2010.01223.x\
Goodman, J., Anson, R., & Belcheir, M. (2015). 
\b The effect of incentives and other instructor-driven strategies to increase online student evaluation response rates
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 40
\i0 (7), 958\'96970. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2014.960364\
G\'f6ritz, A. S. (2006). 
\b Incentives in web studies: Methodological issues and a review
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 1
\i0 (1), 58\'9670.\
G\'f6ritz, A. S., & Crutzen, R. (2012). 
\b Reminders in Web-Based Data Collection Increasing Response at the Price of Retention?
\b0  
\i American Journal of Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 33
\i0 (2), 240\'96250. https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214011421956\
Groh-Samberg, O., & Tucci, I. (2010). 
\b Qualitative interviewing of respondents in large representative surveys
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 143
\i0 .\
Gummer, T., & Ro\'dfmann, J. (2013). 
\b Good questions, bad questions? A Post-Survey Evaluation Strategy Based on Item Nonresponse
\b0 . 
\i Survey Methods: Insights from the Field
\i0 , 10. https://doi.org/10.13094/SMIF-2013-00010\
H\'e4der, M. (2000). 
\b Die Expertenauswahl bei Delphi-Befragungen
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 5
\i0 .\
H\'e4der, M. (2009). 
\b Der Datenschutz in den Sozialwissenschaften. Anmerkungen zur Praxis sozialwissenschaftlicher Erhebungen und Datenverarbeitung in Deutschland
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 90
\i0 .\
H\'e4der, S. (2000). 
\b Telefonstichproben
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Heckathorn, D. D. (2007). 
\b 6. Extensions of Respondent-Driven Sampling: Analyzing Continuous Variables and Controlling for Differential Recruitment
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (1), 151\'96208. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9531.2007.00188.x\
Huang, J. Y., Hubbard, S. M., & Mulvey, K. P. (2003). 
\b Obtaining valid response rates: considerations beyond the tailored design method
\b0 . 
\i Evaluation and Program Planning
\i0 , 
\i 26
\i0 (1), 91\'9697. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0149-7189(02)00091-5\
Jaspers, E., Lubbers, M., & Graaf, N. D. D. (2009). 
\b Measuring Once Twice: An Evaluation of Recalling Attitudes in Survey Research
\b0 . 
\i European Sociological Review
\i0 , 
\i 25
\i0 (3), 287\'96301. https://doi.org/10.1093/esr/jcn048\
Johnson, G. M. (2015). 
\b Record of assessment moderation practice (RAMP): survey software as a mechanism of continuous quality improvement
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 40
\i0 (2), 265\'96278. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2014.911244\
Keller, H., Heinemann, E., & Kruse, M. (2012). 
\b Praxisbericht: Die Ratingkonferenz. Eine Kombination von Kurzfragebogen und Gruppeninterview
\b0 . 
\i Zeitschrift f\'fcr Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 11. Jahrgang
\i0 , 
\i 2/2012
\i0 .\
Kember, D., & Leung, D. Y. P. (2008). 
\b Establishing the validity and reliability of course evaluation questionnaires
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 33
\i0 (4), 341\'96353. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930701563070\
Kero, P., & Lee, D. (2015). 
\b Slider Scales and Web-Based Surveys: A Cautionary Note
\b0 . 
\i Journal of Research Practice
\i0 , 
\i 1
\i0 (1), 1.\
Kiernan, N. E., Kiernan, M., Oyler, M. A., & Gilles, C. (2005). 
\b Is a Web Survey as Effective as a Mail Survey? A Field Experiment Among Computer Users
\b0 . 
\i American Journal of Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 26
\i0 (2), 245\'96252. https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214005275826\
Koch, A., & Blohm, M. (2014). 
\b Nonresponse bias
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Kr\'e4mer, W. (2011).
\b  The cult of statistical significance\'96What economists should and should not do to make their data talk
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 176
\i0 (3).\
Kreuter, F., M\'fcller, G., & Trappmann, M. (2014). 
\b A Note on Mechanisms Leading to Lower Data Quality of Late or Reluctant Respondents
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 43
\i0 (3), 452\'96464. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124113508094\
Krug, G., Carstensen, J., & Kriwy, P. (2017). 
\b Die richtige Mischung? Ein randomisiertes Experiment zur Datenqualit\'e4t bei der Kombination von Telefon- und Onlineerhebung in der empirischen Sozialforschung
\b0 . 
\i Zeitschrift f\'fcr Soziologie
\i0 , 
\i 46
\i0 (2), 89\'96106. https://doi.org/10.1515/zfsoz-2017-1006\
Krysan, M., & Couper, M. P. (2006). 
\b Race of Interviewer Effects: What Happens on the Web?
\b0  
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 1
\i0 (1), 17\'9628.\
Lalla, M., & Ferrari, D. (2011). 
\b Web\uc0\u8208 based versus paper\u8208 based data collection for the evaluation of teaching activity: empirical evidence from a case study
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 36
\i0 (3), 347\'96365. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930903428692\
Lenzner, T. (2014).
\b  Are Readability Formulas Valid Tools for Assessing Survey Question Difficulty?
\b0  
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 43
\i0 (4), 677\'96698. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124113513436\
Liebig, S. (2009). 
\b Organizational Data
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 67
\i0 .\
Liebig, S., Gebel, T., Grenzer, M., Kreusch, J., Schuster, H., Tscherwinka, R., & Witzel, A. (2014). 
\b Datenschutzrechtliche Anforderungen bei der Generierung und Archivierung qualitativer Interviewdaten
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 238
\i0 .\
Mason, M. (2010). 
\b Sample Size and Saturation in PhD Studies Using Qualitative Interviews
\b0 . 
\i Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research
\i0 , 
\i 11
\i0 (3). Abgerufen von http://www.qualitative-research.net/index.php/fqs/article/view/1428\
Maynard, D. W., Freese, J., & Schaeffer, N. C. (2010). 
\b Calling for Participation Requests, Blocking Moves, and Rational (Inter)action in Survey Introductions
\b0 . 
\i American Sociological Review
\i0 , 
\i 75
\i0 (5), 791\'96814. https://doi.org/10.1177/0003122410379582\
Menold, N., & Bogner, K. (2014). 
\b Gestaltung von Ratingskalen in Frageb\'f6gen
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Misra, S., Stokols, D., & Marino, A. H. (2012). 
\b Using Norm\'96Based Appeals to Increase Response Rates in Evaluation Research. A Field Experiment
\b0 . 
\i American Journal of Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 33
\i0 (1), 88\'9698. https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214011414862\
Morris, M., & International Union for the Scientific Study of Population (Hrsg.). (2004). 
\i\b Network epidemiology: a handbook for survey design and data collection
\i0\b0 . Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press.\
Morton, J. E., Mullin, P. A., & Biemer, P. B. (2008). 
\b Using reinterview and reconciliation methods to design and evaluate survey questions
\b0 . 
\i Survey Research Methods
\i0 , 
\i 2
\i0 (2), 75\'9682. https://doi.org/10.18148/srm/2008.v2i2.93\
Oravecz, Z., Faust, K., & Batchelder, W. H. (2014). 
\b An Extended Cultural Consensus Theory Model to Account for Cognitive Processes in Decision Making in Social Surveys
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 , 
\i 44
\i0 (1), 185\'96228. https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175014529767\
Pan, Y., & Fond, M. (2014). 
\b Evaluating Multilingual Questionnaires: A Sociolinguistic Perspective
\b0 . 
\i Survey Research Methods
\i0 , 
\i 8
\i0 (3), 181\'96194. https://doi.org/10.18148/srm/2014.v8i3.5483\
Paxton, M. (2000). 
\b A Linguistic Perspective on Multiple Choice Questioning
\b0 . 
\i Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education
\i0 , 
\i 25
\i0 (2), 109\'96119. https://doi.org/10.1080/713611429\
Pforr, K. (2014). 
\b Incentives
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
Pr\'fcfer, P., & Rexroth, M. (1996). 
\b Verfahren zur Evaluation von Survey-Fragen: ein \'dcberblick
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA Nachrichten
\i0 , 
\i 20
\i0 (39), 95\'96116.\
Ramanathan, S., & Faulkner, G. (2015). 
\b Calculating Outcome Rates in Web Surveys
\b0 . 
\i Canadian Journal of Program Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 30
\i0 (1). Abgerufen von http://www.cjpe.ca/secure/30-1-090_RTZCXMWAVC.pdf\
Rammstedt, B. (2004). 
\b Zur Bestimmung der G\'fcte von Multi-Item-Skalen: Eine Einf\'fchrung
\b0 . 
\i ZUMA How-to-Reihe
\i0 , 
\i 12
\i0 .\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007a). 
\b Case studies
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 57\'9664. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.237\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007b). 
\b Conducting the survey
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 47\'9650. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.235\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007c). 
\b Managing online survey data
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 51\'9655. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.236\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007d). 
\b Questions for online surveys
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 29\'9636. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.233\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007e). 
\b Selecting a sample
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 23\'9628. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.232\
Ritter, L. A., & Sue, V. M. (2007f). 
\b Systematic planning for using an online survey
\b0 . 
\i New Directions for Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 2007
\i0 (115), 15\'9622. https://doi.org/10.1002/ev.231\
Rudolph, C. (2011). 
\i\b Evaluierung von Usability durch standardisierte qualitative Leitfadeninterviews
\i0\b0 .\
Ruusuvuori, J. (2016). 
\b Comment: The Constituents of Rapport in the Standardized Survey Interview
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175016644898\
Ryan, K., Gannon-Slater, N., & Culbertson, M. J. (2012). 
\b Improving Survey Methods With Cognitive Interviews in Small- and Medium-Scale Evaluations
\b0 . 
\i American Journal of Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 33
\i0 (3), 414\'96430. https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214012441499\
Sakshaug, J., & Crawford, S. D. (2010). 
\b The impact of textual messages of encouragement on web survey breakoffs: An experiment
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 4
\i0 (1), 50\'9660.\
Sanders, M., Gugiu, P. C., & Enciso, P. (2015). 
\b How Good are Our Measures? Investigating the Appropriate Use of Factor Analysis for Survey Instruments
\b0 . 
\i Journal of MultiDisciplinary Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 11
\i0 (25), 22\'9633.\
Schaar, K. (2017). 
\b Die informierte Einwilligung als Voraussetzung f\'fcr die (Nach-) nutzung von Forschungsdaten
\b0 : Beitrag zur Standardisierung von Einwilligungserkl\'e4rungen im Forschungsbereich unter Einbeziehung der Vorgaben der DS-GVO und Ethikvorgaben. 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 264
\i0 .\
Schiek, D., & Ullrich, C. G. (2015). 
\b Conference Report: Qualitative Online Inquiry
\b0 . 
\i Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research
\i0 , 
\i 16
\i0 (2). Abgerufen von http://www.qualitative-research.net/index.php/fqs/article/view/2365\
Schimpl-Neimanns, B. (2013). 
\b Methodische Herausforderungen bei der Erfassung von Bildung und Ausbildung im Mikrozensus
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 221
\i0 .\
Schober, M. F. (2016). Comment: 
\b Rapport in Survey Interactions
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methodology
\i0 . https://doi.org/10.1177/0081175016644897\
Schonlau, M., Soest, A. van, Kapteyn, A., & Couper, M. (2009). 
\b Selection Bias in Web Surveys and the Use of Propensity Scores
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (3), 291\'96318. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124108327128\
Schoon, I. (2009). 
\b Measuring social competencies
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 58
\i0 .\
Schrijver, A. D. (2012). 
\b Sample Survey on Sensitive Topics
\b0 : Investigating Respondents\'92 Understanding and Trust in Alternative Versions of the Randomized Response Technique. 
\i Journal of Research Practice
\i0 , 
\i 8
\i0 (1), 1.\
Sch\'fctzenmeister, F. (2002). 
\b Die Bereitschaft, sich wieder befragen zu lassen, in postalischen Erhebungen
\b0 /The Willingness to Be Re-interviewed in Mail Surveys. 
\i Zeitschrift f\'fcr Soziologie
\i0 , 
\i 31
\i0 (2), 138\'96154.\
Schwarz, N. (1994). 
\i\b Cognition, communication, and survey measurement: some implications for contingent valuation surveys
\i0\b0 . Mannheim. Abgerufen von http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:0168-ssoar-70186\
Shih, T.-H., & Fan, X. (2007). 
\b Response rates and mode preferences in web-mail mixed-mode surveys: a meta-analysis
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 2
\i0 (1), 59\'9682.\
Shropshire, K. O., Hawdon, J. E., & Witte, J. C. (2009). 
\b Web Survey Design Balancing Measurement, Response, and Topical Interest
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (3), 344\'96370. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124108327130\
Siedler, T., & Sonnenberg, B. (2010). 
\b Experiments, surveys and the use of representative samples as reference data
\b0 . 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 146
\i0 .\
Skolits, G. J., & Boser, J. A. (2008). 
\b Using an Evaluation Hotline to Promote Stakeholder Involvement
\b0 . 
\i American Journal of Evaluation
\i0 , 
\i 29
\i0 (1), 58\'9670. https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214007312777\
Smyth, J. D., Dillman, D. A., Christian, L. M., & Stern, M. J. (2006). 
\b Effects of using visual design principles to group response options in web surveys
\b0 . 
\i International Journal of Internet Science
\i0 , 
\i 1
\i0 (1), 6\'9616.\
Stock\'e9, V. (2004). 
\b Entstehungsbedingungen von Antwortverzerrungen durch soziale Erw\'fcnschtheit
\b0 : Ein Vergleich der Prognosen der Rational-Choice Theorie und des Modells der Frame-Selektion/Determinants for Respondents\'92 Susceptibility to Social Desirability Bias: A Comparison of Predictions from Rational Choice Theory and the Model of Frame-Selection. 
\i Zeitschrift f\'fcr Soziologie
\i0 , 303\'96320.\
Temple, E. C., & Brown, R. F. (2012). 
\b A Comparison of Internet-Based Participant Recruitment Methods
\b0 : Engaging the Hidden Population of Cannabis Users in Research. 
\i Journal of Research Practice
\i0 , 
\i 7
\i0 (2), 2.\
Toepoel, V., Vis, C., Das, M., & Soest, A. van. (2009). 
\b Design of Web Questionnaires. An Information-Processing Perspective for the Effect of Response Categories
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 37
\i0 (3), 371\'96392. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124108327123\
Wagner, G. G. (2016). 
\b Methodenmix hilft beim finden und ausw\'e4hlen von sozialen Indikatoren
\b0 : Anmerkungen zur Methodik des Projektes" Gut leben in Deutschland". 
\i RatSWD Working Paper Series
\i0 , 
\i 260
\i0 .\
Wei\'df, S., Schramm, S., Hillert, A., & Kiel, E. (2013a). 
\b Lehrerinnen und Lehrer kommentieren Frageb\'f6gen: wie quantitative Forschung von qualitativer Forschung lernen kann
\b0 . 
\i Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research
\i0 , 
\i 14
\i0 (3), 30.\
Wei\'df, S., Schramm, S., Hillert, A., & Kiel, E. (2013b). 
\b Teachers\'92 Comments on Questionnaires\'97How Quantitative Research Can Learn from Qualitative Research
\b0 . 
\i Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research
\i0 , 
\i 14
\i0 (3). Abgerufen von http://www.qualitative-research.net/index.php/fqs/article/view/1967\
Williams, I. L., & O\'92Donnell, C. R. (2014). 
\b Web-based tracking methods in longitudinal studies
\b0 . 
\i Evaluation and Program Planning
\i0 , 
\i 45
\i0 , 82\'9689. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2014.04.001\
Wolter, F., & Preisend\'f6rfer, P. (2013). 
\b Asking Sensitive Questions An Evaluation of the Randomized Response Technique Versus Direct Questioning Using Individual Validation Data
\b0 . 
\i Sociological Methods & Research
\i0 , 
\i 42
\i0 (3), 321\'96353. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124113500474\
Z\'fcll, C. (2014). 
\b Berufscodierung
\b0 . 
\i GESIS Survey Guidelines
\i0 .\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1\qc\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf2 besser fragen
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2  f\'fcr Ergebnisse die z\'e4hlen\
\

\fs36 besser-fragen.com
\fs24 \cf0 \
}